Hello and welcome back. In this lecture, I'm going to show you how to use Codex with radare2
to solve crackme number 2, which is a GUI-based crackme. So head over to my crackme folder
and run crackme2. You will see it will open up Windows GUI and ask you to input the serial
number. Let us enter 123456 and click on the check button and it says
wrong serial. So we will remember this string wrong serial and use the same
strategy to solve this crackme. Now let's open our Codex. You can also use
Claude Code if you have a Claude Code subscription. Let's click on new chat and
close the sidebar. We will now get the README file. We will now get the skill
file. So head over to the AI skills folder and copy the path to this skill
file. Right-click Copy as Path, and then we give our prompt to Codex. Ask it to
read this skill file and paste in the skill file. Then analyze this crackme
and then give it the path to the crackme. So we right-click and copy the path
and paste the path in here. So we ask Codex to analyze this crackme to find
the control flow logic which decides to show the string wrong serial and
understand how it decides to show that string or any other string message then
explain to me how it works. So this is the prompt. Read the skill file then
analyze this crack me to find the control flow logic which decides to show
the string wrong serial and understand how it decides to show that string or
any other string message. Then explain to me how it works. Then click on
Go. Make sure your GPT model is the highest one, which is at time of recording GPT 5.5,
and make sure your reasoning effort is set to extra high. Extra high is needed because doing
reverse engineering does involve complex reasoning. So now it has gone to work and says that
it is reading the skill file first and straight away it has already found the interesting strings
for example, CM2-91A7-2026, and also the congrats and the wrong serial messages. So let us copy this.
This could be the password, the serial key, and we paste it in here and click Check, and congrats.
It has managed to solve it for us so easily, but let us see what else it has to say.
And here is another confirmation.
It says that the program compares the edit box text against the hardcoded string, which
is the serial key we just saw.
And finally, it gives the report.
It says the relevant logic is in this address here.
And the valid serial is hardcoded as this.
Another confirmation.
And here it has got the core logic written down as pseudocode, which resembles C programming
language.
So as you can see, it gets the text that the user inputs using this function, this API.
It then uses the string compare function from C and it compares this string, this constant
with the input from the user.
And then if it is correct, it is the same. It will return 0.
And then 0 means that the strings are identical.
That means success.
So it prints the window message, congrats, at the bottom of the window.
However, if the comparison fails, that means it's a wrong serial key, which means the key
that the user enters does not match this key, then it will do the else part and show the
wrong serial message instead. So very efficient and very concise. So this is how useful using
Codex with radare2 can be. So that's all for this video. Thank you for watching.